Release 25.1 changelog (#542)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-enterprise_versioned_docs/version-25.1/enterprise/studios.mdx

Provide a wildcard TLS certificate to allow for uniquely generated subdomains. A wildcard certificate common name includes `*.` in the domain name, such as `*.example.com`, thereby securing any subdomain name at this level.

Studios uses the following set of domains and subdomains:

- The domain that you set for `TOWER_SERVER_URL`, such as `example.com`.
- A wildcard subdomain that you must configure specifically for Studios. This wildcard subdomain is the parent for each unique session URL, such as `abcd.example.com`.
- The connection proxy, defined by `CONNECT_PROXY_URL`. This URL is a first-level subdomain of your `TOWER_SERVER_URL`. For example, `https://connect.example.com`. 

## Studios workspace availability

You can configure which organizational workspaces have access to Studios. This configuration is set in the `tower.yml` file. The `tower.data-studio.allowed-workspaces` field supports the following options:

- `allowed-workspaces: []`: Disables Studios. This is the default if the `allowed-workspaces` field is not specified.
- `allowed-workspaces: [ <WORKSPACE_ID>,<WORKSPACE_ID> ]`: Enables Studios for the comma-separated list of organizational workspace IDs.

> - `allowed-workspaces: null`: Enables Studios for all organizational workspaces.

Reviewer: Non-blocking comment: the way this config param works is counter-intuitive.

Reviewer 2: Not sure I agree - I believe it matches other config options. Can you explain why you think it's counter-intuitive?

## Available Studio environment images

Each of the provided environments includes a particular version of the underlying software package and the version of Seqera Connect, an integrated web- and file-server.

> To quickly identify which version of the software an image includes, the version string for each container is in the form of `<software_version>-<seqera_connect_version>`. For example, if the version string for the RStudio Server is `4.4.1-0.8`, version `4.4.1` is the RStudio version and `0.8` is the Connect version of this Seqera-built container image. Learn more about Studios [environment versioning](../studios/index.mdx#container-image-templates).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To quickly identify which version of the software an image includes, the version string for each container is in the form of `<software_version>-<seqera_connect_version>`. For example, if the version string for the RStudio Server is `4.4.1-0.8`, version `4.4.1` is the RStudio version and `0.8` is the Connect version of this Seqera-built container image. Learn more about Studios [environment versioning](../../studios/index.mdx#container-image-templates).
```

    ```shell
    openssl genrsa -out private.pem 2048
    openssl rsa -pubout -in private.pem -out public.pem
    ```

1. Download the [data-studios-rsa.pem](./_templates/docker/data-studios-rsa.pem) file and replace its contents with the content of your private and public key files, in the same order (private key on top, public key directly beneath it). Save the file as `data-studios-rsa.pem`, in the same directory as your `docker-compose.yml` file. 

1. Open the `docker-compose.yml` and uncomment the volume mount for the PEM key file for the `backend` service in the `volumes` list. Your PEM file must be named `data-studios-rsa.pem`.

    ```yaml
    volumes:
      - $PWD/tower.yml:/tower.yml
      # An RSA key is required for Studios functionality. Uncomment the line below to mount the key.
      #- $PWD/data-studios-rsa.pem:/data-studios-rsa.pem
    ```

1. Open `data-studios.env` in an editor, and make the following changes:

    1. Uncomment the `connect-proxy` and `connect-server` services.
    1. Set the following environment variables:

>         - `PLATFORM_URL`: The same value assigned to `TOWER_SERVER_URL`. For example, `https://example.com`.

Reviewer: Also non-blocking: using Platform in newer environment variable names while we still have tower environment variables everywhere else is a confusing UX. We should change the rest to Platform soon, though I know that's a bigger can of worms than it sounds.

1. Open `tower.env` in an editor and set the following variables:

    - `TOWER_DATA_EXPLORER_ENABLED`: Set `true` to enable Data Explorer. You must enable Data Explorer to mount data inside a Studio.
    - `TOWER_DATA_STUDIO_CONNECT_URL`: The URL of the Studios connect proxy, such as `https://connect.example.com/`.
    - `TOWER_OIDC_REGISTRATION_INITIAL_ACCESS_TOKEN`: The same value set in the `oidc_registration_token` environment variable.
    - `TOWER_OIDC_PEM_PATH`: The file path to a PEM certificate used for signing the OIDC tokens for the OpenID connect provider, mounted as a volume inside the container.

1. Edit the `tower.yml` file and include the following snippet to enable Studios in all organization workspaces:

    ```yaml
    tower:
      data-studio:
        allowed-workspaces: null
    ```

1. Start your Platform instance: `docker compose -d up`.

1. Confirm that the Platform containers are running:

    ```
    docker ps
    ```

1. To confirm that Studios is available, log in to your Platform instance and navigate to an organizational workspace that has Studios enabled. The **Studios** tab is included with the available tabs.

## Kubernetes

> This procedure describes how to configure Studios for Kubernetes deployments of Seqera Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This procedure describes how to configure Studios for Seqera Enterprise deployments in Kubernetes.
```

    ```

1. Edit the `proxy.yml` file and set the following variables:

    - `CONNECT_REDIS_ADDRESS`: The hostname or IP address of the Redis server configured for Platform.
    - `CONNECT_PROXY_URL`: A URL for the connect proxy subdomain. We recommend you set a first-level subdomain of your Platform installation domain (`PLATFORM_URL` below) for your connect proxy, to be able to use the same wildcard TLS certificate for all session URLs and avoid additional domain nesting. For example, `https://connect.example.com`.
    - `PLATFORM_URL`: The base URL for your Platform installation, such as `https://example.com/`.
    - `CONNECT_OIDC_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_TOKEN`: The same value as the `oidc_registration_token` value created previously.

1. Edit your Platform installation's `ingress.eks.yml` file:

    - Uncomment the `host` section at the bottom of the file.
    - Replace `<YOUR-TOWER-HOST-NAME>` with the base domain of your Platform installation. For example, `example.com`.

    :::note
    This assumes that you have an existing Platform installation Ingress already configured with the following fields:

>     - `alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/certificate-arn`: The ARN of a wildcard TLS certificate that secures your Platform URL and connect proxy URL. For example, if `CONNECT_PROXY_URL=https://example.com`, the certificate must secure both `example.com` and `*.example.com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/certificate-arn`: The ARN of a wildcard TLS certificate that secures your Platform URL and connect proxy URL. For example, if `TOWER_SERVER_URL=https://example.com` and `CONNECT_PROXY_URL=https://connect.example.com`, the certificate must secure both `example.com` and `*.example.com`.
```
